README.md, before:

# XGov Digital Form Builder

[![Gitter](https://badges.gitter.im/XGovFormBuilder/Public.svg)](https://gitter.im/XGovFormBuilder/Public?utm_source=badge&utm_medium=badge&utm_campaign=pr-badge)

This repository is a mono repo for

- @xgovformbuilder/[runner](https://github.com/XGovFormBuilder/digital-form-builder/tree/master/runner) - Hapi server which can 'run' a form from a JSON file
- @xgovformbuilder/[designer](https://github.com/XGovFormBuilder/digital-form-builder/tree/master/designer) - A React app to aide in form building
- @xgovformbuilder/[model](https://github.com/XGovFormBuilder/digital-form-builder/tree/master/model) - Serves the data model and other helpers

The repos are forked from [DEFRA's digital form builder](https://github.com/DEFRA/digital-form-builder).

This is a (getting close to) zero-install yarn 2 workspaces repository. .yarnrc.yml allows us to align our yarn environments. Please commit any plugins in .yarn, but do not commit your .yarn/cache. CI will save and restore the caches.

Workspaces will deal with sym-linking the packages, so we do not have to manually run `yarn link`.
It will also deal with hoisting the node_modules for any packages that are shared between the repos, thus decreasing any install times. Hopefully it all just works™️.

## Setup

**Always run scripts from the root directory.**

1. Make sure you are using node >=12. upto 14. `node --version`.
2. Make sure you have yarn 2.4+ installed.
3. Run `$ yarn` command to install all dependencies in all workspaces.
4. Run `$ yarn build` to build all workspaces (this is needed because dependencies can depend on each other).

As already mentioned, **always run scripts from the root directory.** because workspaces don't have scripts or packages you need to run from inside their folders and by running in the root directory yarn 2 can resolve the scripts/packages properly.

To learn more about workspaces, check these links:

- [Workspaces in Yarn](https://classic.yarnpkg.com/blog/2017/08/02/introducing-workspaces/)
- [Workspaces](https://classic.yarnpkg.com/en/docs/workspaces)

### I want to...

#### run a specific workspaces' script

`$ yarn [runner|designer|model] name-of-script`

eg.: `yarn designer start` or `yarn runner add babel-core --dev`

#### run a script for each of the workspaces

`$ yarn workspaces foreach run name-of-script`

#### watch and build for changes across all repos

I wouldn't recommend it unless you have a beefy processor.

`$ yarn watch`

#### add a dependency to all workspaces

`$ yarn add packagename`

#### create a new workspace

1. create a new directory for the workspace and yarn init it
   1. `$ mkdir myNewLib`
   2. `$ cd myNewlib`
   3. `$ yarn init`
2. in the root `package.json`
   1. add `myNewLib` to the `workspaces` object.

## Troubleshooting

If you have any problems, submit an issue or send a message via gitter.

### Error: ENOENT: no such file or directory, scandir 'xxx/node_modules/node-sass/vendor'

`/vendor` is not present since it hasn't been built or rebuilt. You may also get this issue with `core-js`, `fsevents`, `nodemailer` etc.
`$ yarn rebuild` to rebuild all the packages
`$ yarn rebuild only node-sass` to rebuild just node-sass

### CI

#### Build process

1. Pushes to any branch will start the build process
2. `.circleci/circle_trigger.sh` will check for any changes in our packages, and if builds have failed previously
3. `circle_trigger.sh` will trigger a workflow via the API. It will pass the parameters model, runner, designer (bool) to the workflow.
4. If there are any changes to a workspace, it will be built and tested.

- If an upstream dependency, like model has changed, the downstream dependencies (runner, designer) will also be built and tested.

#### Development environment

The development workflow is triggered whenever a PR is merged into master and you can monitor it on the repository's [action tab](https://github.com/XGovFormBuilder/digital-form-builder/actions).

The workflow contains two separate jobs that run in parallel, one for the Runner and another for the Designer application.

Both jobs work as follows:

1. Build the docker image with all dependencies.
2. Push image to Heroku Container Registry.
3. Release the latest image.

The latest releases will be running here: [Runner](https://digital-form-builder-runner.herokuapp.com) / [Designer](https://digital-form-builder-designer.herokuapp.com).

## contributions

Issues and pull requests are welcome. Please check [CONTRIBUTING.md](./CONTRIBUTING.md) first!

### Developer only features ⚠️

There are some features that we do not want to expose (for fear of wide adoption), as they are not complete or have accessibility issues. Please use these with caution. 

- Conditionally revealing of fields based on checkbox/radio selection. 
  - This is a known accessibility issue. https://github.com/alphagov/govuk-frontend/issues/1991. NVDA, JAWS and VoiceOver (currently most popular screen readers) all have varying levels of support for checkboxes and radios. It is breaking WCAG 2.1A compliance.
  - If you would like to use these, the runner will still support child components, you must add this to your JSON configuration manually. 
    - Static lists (inside a Radios/Checkboxes Field component) 
      ``` json5
      { // Component object, other keys stripped for brevity
        ...
        "type": "RadiosField",
        "values": {
          "type": "static",
          "valueType": "string",
          "items": [
            { "label": "Item 3", "value": "13", "children": [{ ...subcomponent }] }
          ]
        }
      }
      ```
      where `{ ...subcomponent }` is any valid `Component` object
    - Global lists
      ``` json5 
      { //List object, other keys stripped for brevity
        ...
        "items": [
          { "text": "a", "value": "a", "description": "a",
            "conditional": {
              "components":[{ ...component }]
            }
          }
        ]
      }
      ```
      where `{ ...subcomponent }` is any valid `Component` object


## Product Roadmap
This outlines work that is currently being worked on and things we plan to work on next. The general answer to "when will X be done?" is "when it's ready," as we believe at this particular stage in our product lifecycle, it's more important to ensure shipping stable and solid code rather than rushing out new features. That said, we do value feedback from the community to help us better understand user needs and adjust priorities.

### In progress now
  1. Various improvements - Labels, Hint text, etc
  2. Various bug fixes
  3. Various accessibility support features/fixes
  4. Feature toggles - e.g. hiding minimap
  5. Persistence of forms
  6. Identity - Limited form editing to author/designer
  7. Chunk of (known issues)[https://github.com/XGovFormBuilder/digital-form-builder/issues] 
  8. Various Dependency & Security improvements

### Smoke tests

There is a suite of smoke tests which are run against all PR's. There is nightly cron based action which executes smoke tests against the Heroku deployments. The nightly job is scheduled to run at midnight.

To run the smoke tests locally, you start the containers up using the command

```
docker-compose up --build
```
Then smoke test can be executed using command

```
yarn smoke-tests/designer smoke-test-headless
```

Pre-requite for running smoke test are:
 1. Yarn 
 2. JVM 
 2. a browser like chrome
 3. Node version 12+ upto 14
 4. yarn install
 
 More details are on [Smoke Tests](./smoke-tests/README.md)

Commit message:

Added some explaining for two docker config files

README.md, after:

# XGov Digital Form Builder

[![Gitter](https://badges.gitter.im/XGovFormBuilder/Public.svg)](https://gitter.im/XGovFormBuilder/Public?utm_source=badge&utm_medium=badge&utm_campaign=pr-badge)

This repository is a mono repo for

- @xgovformbuilder/[runner](https://github.com/XGovFormBuilder/digital-form-builder/tree/master/runner) - Hapi server which can 'run' a form from a JSON file
- @xgovformbuilder/[designer](https://github.com/XGovFormBuilder/digital-form-builder/tree/master/designer) - A React app to aide in form building
- @xgovformbuilder/[model](https://github.com/XGovFormBuilder/digital-form-builder/tree/master/model) - Serves the data model and other helpers

The repos are forked from [DEFRA's digital form builder](https://github.com/DEFRA/digital-form-builder).

This is a (getting close to) zero-install yarn 2 workspaces repository. .yarnrc.yml allows us to align our yarn environments. Please commit any plugins in .yarn, but do not commit your .yarn/cache. CI will save and restore the caches.

Workspaces will deal with sym-linking the packages, so we do not have to manually run `yarn link`.
It will also deal with hoisting the node_modules for any packages that are shared between the repos, thus decreasing any install times. Hopefully it all just works™️.

## Setup

**Always run scripts from the root directory.**

1. Make sure you are using node >=12. upto 14. `node --version`.
2. Make sure you have yarn 2.4+ installed.
3. Run `$ yarn` command to install all dependencies in all workspaces.
4. Run `$ yarn build` to build all workspaces (this is needed because dependencies can depend on each other).

As already mentioned, **always run scripts from the root directory.** because workspaces don't have scripts or packages you need to run from inside their folders and by running in the root directory yarn 2 can resolve the scripts/packages properly.

To learn more about workspaces, check these links:

- [Workspaces in Yarn](https://classic.yarnpkg.com/blog/2017/08/02/introducing-workspaces/)
- [Workspaces](https://classic.yarnpkg.com/en/docs/workspaces)

### I want to...

#### run a specific workspaces' script

`$ yarn [runner|designer|model] name-of-script`

eg.: `yarn designer start` or `yarn runner add babel-core --dev`

#### run a script for each of the workspaces

`$ yarn workspaces foreach run name-of-script`

#### watch and build for changes across all repos

I wouldn't recommend it unless you have a beefy processor.

`$ yarn watch`

#### add a dependency to all workspaces

`$ yarn add packagename`

#### create a new workspace

1. create a new directory for the workspace and yarn init it
   1. `$ mkdir myNewLib`
   2. `$ cd myNewlib`
   3. `$ yarn init`
2. in the root `package.json`
   1. add `myNewLib` to the `workspaces` object.

## Troubleshooting

If you have any problems, submit an issue or send a message via gitter.

### Error: ENOENT: no such file or directory, scandir 'xxx/node_modules/node-sass/vendor'

`/vendor` is not present since it hasn't been built or rebuilt. You may also get this issue with `core-js`, `fsevents`, `nodemailer` etc.
`$ yarn rebuild` to rebuild all the packages
`$ yarn rebuild only node-sass` to rebuild just node-sass

### CI

#### Build process

1. Pushes to any branch will start the build process
2. `.circleci/circle_trigger.sh` will check for any changes in our packages, and if builds have failed previously
3. `circle_trigger.sh` will trigger a workflow via the API. It will pass the parameters model, runner, designer (bool) to the workflow.
4. If there are any changes to a workspace, it will be built and tested.

- If an upstream dependency, like model has changed, the downstream dependencies (runner, designer) will also be built and tested.

#### Development environment

The development workflow is triggered whenever a PR is merged into master and you can monitor it on the repository's [action tab](https://github.com/XGovFormBuilder/digital-form-builder/actions).

The workflow contains two separate jobs that run in parallel, one for the Runner and another for the Designer application.

Both jobs work as follows:

1. Build the docker image with all dependencies.
2. Push image to Heroku Container Registry.
3. Release the latest image.

The latest releases will be running here: [Runner](https://digital-form-builder-runner.herokuapp.com) / [Designer](https://digital-form-builder-designer.herokuapp.com).

## contributions

Issues and pull requests are welcome. Please check [CONTRIBUTING.md](./CONTRIBUTING.md) first!

### Developer only features ⚠️

There are some features that we do not want to expose (for fear of wide adoption), as they are not complete or have accessibility issues. Please use these with caution. 

- Conditionally revealing of fields based on checkbox/radio selection. 
  - This is a known accessibility issue. https://github.com/alphagov/govuk-frontend/issues/1991. NVDA, JAWS and VoiceOver (currently most popular screen readers) all have varying levels of support for checkboxes and radios. It is breaking WCAG 2.1A compliance.
  - If you would like to use these, the runner will still support child components, you must add this to your JSON configuration manually. 
    - Static lists (inside a Radios/Checkboxes Field component) 
      ``` json5
      { // Component object, other keys stripped for brevity
        ...
        "type": "RadiosField",
        "values": {
          "type": "static",
          "valueType": "string",
          "items": [
            { "label": "Item 3", "value": "13", "children": [{ ...subcomponent }] }
          ]
        }
      }
      ```
      where `{ ...subcomponent }` is any valid `Component` object
    - Global lists
      ``` json5 
      { //List object, other keys stripped for brevity
        ...
        "items": [
          { "text": "a", "value": "a", "description": "a",
            "conditional": {
              "components":[{ ...component }]
            }
          }
        ]
      }
      ```
      where `{ ...subcomponent }` is any valid `Component` object


## Product Roadmap
This outlines work that is currently being worked on and things we plan to work on next. The general answer to "when will X be done?" is "when it's ready," as we believe at this particular stage in our product lifecycle, it's more important to ensure shipping stable and solid code rather than rushing out new features. That said, we do value feedback from the community to help us better understand user needs and adjust priorities.

### In progress/Next
In no particular order here is a list of what we are working on and next
  1. Various improvements - Labels, Hint text, etc
  2. Various accessibility support features/fixes
  3. Feature toggles
  4. Persistence
  5. Identity
  6. [Known issues](https://github.com/XGovFormBuilder/digital-form-builder/issues)

### Docker images

Both application (Designer & Runner) can be run locally using [docker-compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/)

There are two configurations of docker-componse in the root folder

```
docker-compose.yml
```
This is used to run a container instances for Integration/Smoke style testing of the application

```
docker-compose-dev.yml
```
This is built of developers for local testing and testing while writing code. Key difference is both runner and designer are started in developer mode.
### Smoke tests

There is a suite of smoke tests which are run against all PR's. There is nightly cron based action which executes smoke tests against the Heroku deployments. The nightly job is scheduled to run at midnight.

To run the smoke tests locally, you start the containers up using the command

```
docker-compose up --build
```
Then smoke test can be executed using command

```
yarn smoke-tests/designer smoke-test-headless
```

Pre-requite for running smoke test are:
 1. Yarn 
 2. JVM 
 2. a browser like chrome
 3. Node version 12+ upto 14
 4. yarn install
 
 More details are on [Smoke Tests](./smoke-tests/README.md)
